Presenter: Let's suppose that you are elected.
What will be your first ten measures?
And I mean concrete measures.
JLM: First of all, I will convene a constituent assembly on my first day in office.
It means that the French people will be called to rebuild itself politically
by defining the new organizational rules of the country's political life.
We'll get rid of the presidential monarchy—at least I hope so—
and we'll enter a new era of civic power and civic revolutions in which citizens can have control over their representatives.
I mentioned the recall election as an example earlier,
but there are many other possibilities.
But first of all, the funding act is the rewriting of the rules of political life..
Once the new Constitution is voted and applies,
I'll leave office.
Presenter: So you won't stay in office?
JLM: No I won't, since there will be a new Constitution.
I won't be the guy who says "I was elected for 5 years so I will stay until the end".
Maybe I'll have a role in the new Constitution, but before that I'll leave office.
The first reason why people should vote for me is that I'll give democracy a good sweep.
and that we'll create a new set of rules in which some things will be allowed and others forbidden.
This is the first measure. The second  measure is a global programme but I'll summarize it as "sharing the wealth".
This situation in which some have everything and a growing number of people have nothing has to stop.
There are around 9 million poor people in this country, and 13 million in Germany.
It is a huge category of the population.
A poor is not only the person you see on the street—and it is already tragic!
It is also the co-owner—lots of people are falling into poverty!
So we'll share the wealth, and then we'll give priority to investments in ecological planning.
To me, ecology is the most important issue of our time,
and we are fussing about things that are not worth it.
The human civilization is facing destruction because of the way we consume and produce.
I wish the Green Rule to be written in the Constitution: we can't take more from the Earth than can be renewed.
At least, we the French people will do it, because we have the chance to have the intellectual, material and financial means to do so.
Presenter: Next decision.
JLM: Now, I'll move on to a more controversial topic.
I do not accept the current trend of the European policy.
It will kill our country after it has destroyed it.
Moreover, it will destroy the European ideal because people will end up hating it.
This is unbelievable, we've been fighting for this ideal for a century and a half!
As a consequence, we must exit the European treaties.
JLM: So... Where were we?
Presenter: Let's say this was decision n°5.
JLM: OK... so decision n°6 is about peace.
Until now, peace has been taken for granted.
There were minor wars sometimes, in which "savages" killed one another, and we looked this from afar with contempt,
but now we see that the threat of a generalized war is real.
Acting for peace is therefore an emergency.
One way to act for peace is to reinforce the role of the UNO,
but we also have to leave NATO, the military alliance of which France is a member,
because NATO is a war machine at the service of North-Americans that leads us nowhere.
And, more particularly, I'm afraid it leads us to war in Europe.
Therefore, we must build another alliance.
In a nutshell, I became a French independentist,
and I am in favor of an alter-globalist alliance with other countries. We can do it, we have partners for that.
I advocate the idea of implementing solidarity-based protectionism as a rule,
I do not believe in free-market economy. I think that it leads to everyone's downfall and to ecological catastrophe.
On the contrary, I believe in solidarity-based protectionism.
Protectionism means that we'll relocate as many productions as possible—starting with agricultural productions
that we'll try to diversify as much as possible over the territory—and that we'll put barriers, like normative barriers.
For example, I do not agree with the fact that a commodity that is produced by slave kids
costs as much as a commodity made by workers who have a social protection.
Or environmental norms. A product that has traveled thousands of kilometers,
like a shrimp that was fished somewhere, and then shelled somewhere else, and then packed up in another place.
No, I don't agree with this, these products must be taxed. Can solidarity-base protectionism work ?
You people from the cinema industry know it works.
There is the TSA tax: everytime you go to a movie, this tax funds the next movie.
Some say: "This is a system that allows you French people to make movies", well yes it is!
Presenter: The famous "cultural exception"!
And the result is that we watch movies more than anywhere else
because this tax funds theaters and improves technical skills.
Virginie Efira: And various genres, not always in defined commercial circuits.
JLM: Absolutely! It benefits the whole sector.
So we see that this form of protectionism works. Now, if you want a last measure...
Presenter: The last one.
A very concrete measure: we have to phase out nuclear power and this will take time.
It takes a long time and we have already lost a lot of time.
We can't phase out nuclear power in a snap, so we have to set an objective of 100% renewable energy.
Do we know how to do this? Yes.
I know that if I was president, we'd have to demonstrate that it is possible, and we'd have to do it quickly,
because nowadays, deadlines are short and public attention quickly wanes.
So within the first two years,
we'll have to develop an alternative energy production to compensate the equivalent of
2, 3, 4 or 5 nuclear reactors.
I think we can do this using off-shore wind turbines and other means like geothermal energy and many others.
I'll just mention one last measure.
We have to stop consuming animal proteins.
I am talking about the animal suffering, and about the abominable crimes that we are committing
not only against animals but also against the Earth.
We have to do this quickly!
You must understand that this is an emergency!
And for this we'll need some will,
we must be able to say "no" to a world order, to propose a new one and to set an example,
and you will see that dozens of countries will be interested in what we are,
We could share with them the good technique and ways to do things.
We could share all this with them so that they do what we want to do as well as us.